well I'm joined Now by mads gilbertt
he's a medical doctor and activist and
he's also worked in the alifa hospital
he joins me now from Cairo Dr thank you
for joining us again on Al jazer I
understand you are currently in touch
with colleagues can you tell us what the
situation at alifa is like now we knew
the blackout was coming but not
necessarily the strikes or the
snipers well I think there are two
aspects now important to understand
number one they are surrounded by
Israeli armed hes are shooting at the
hospital we learned this morning snipers
were shooting through the windows and
into the staff uh we also learned that
one nurse was killed in the neonatal ICU
now they have I just got a received a
message from Dr Marana abusada who is
one of the senior surgant and he says 38
neonates moved now to cardiac surgery
unit in main operating theater in open
space not more in incubators because
oxygen generator was damaged by fire uh
strikes yesterday no electricity about
inpatients
28 ICU adults two of them in ventilators
they are in the emergency room and u i i
got this picture of the uh babies who
should have been in the incubator there
are no lying on the floor and the cic
units and they are covered with some
blankets in order to avoid
hypothermia these babies should have
been they they should have been in the
Inc incubators of course and they risk
death three of the neonates are dead and
there are 39 now lying on the floor with
blankets around who are at high risk of
death so this is uh not an it's not a
difficult situation it's a a horrible
situation and um of course the this
points to this
humanitarian total failure and I'd like
to underline one point more now we talk
about the fire and the attacks on the
hospitals and we need to discuss that
and stop that but we have to understand
that most of the the most serious
problem now is 1.5 million internally
displaced without water and food people
are desperate and you know you can't
live long without water they even taking
water up from the streets and they're
drinking sea water with sugar in so this
is a massive failure of the
international humanitarian Society who
should have been there with water it's
getting colder in us now they sleep
under open air they don't have blankets
for the children 1.5 million civilian
Palestinians out in the open with no
water and no food and the attacks on the
hospital now the struggle or the
fighting goes on in the north there is
no no possibility they tell me to access
the wounded or the dead so we will not
have updated numbers on the killed and I
get a flashback to the sa and shatila
Massacre which was done in complete
darkness for three days and I wonder
where are the journalists I haven't
heard from the Al Al jazer journalist in
the north for many days and I'm very
fearful that the there is an ongoing
Massacre which will not be covered and
we will not be able to see it but in
alifa desperate situation no oxygen no
food no water and of course absolutely
no security for patients and staff
doctor when you and I last spoke Ju Just
a day or so ago you were telling me that
when you've been there when when you
worked there for 16 years you saw no
Hamas military operations anywhere near
the hospital facility what do you make
of Israel's claims now its operations
around the facility
now I I have to be honest with you I'm
sick and tired of these claims that
there is H an
Hamas Command Center we as I've said a
hundred times we have never seen it we
have never seen any high ranking Hamas
people in shifa we've been able to ro
freely all around I've never seen
anything nor have my International
colleagues um and um I don't think um
the Israeli Army has any moral standard
because the Playbook of war the Geneva
Convention and the hog convention
clearly states that hospitals are
protected objects even if there should
be some military personnel so these are
the claims and they don't even need
these claims because they have bombed
rantisi theyve bombed n Hospital they've
bombed the uh Al hospital without any
claims of any Command Center so they
seem to be attacking Healthcare as a
part of their strategy and we know that
from 16 years they've always been
attacking Healthcare doctor what do you
understand about the restrictions on on
movement around alifa at the moment our
correspondent earlier was saying that
doctors can't even move from Department
to Department why restrict people from
moving within the facility why shoot
through
windows I think you should ask that
question to the Israeli military uh
officers and the chief of staff and Mr
netan and most of all you should ask
President Joe Biden why are your troops
on the ground supported by the United
States shooting and killing health
personnel in the hospital when they try
to save lives I'm not the one who should
answer that question it's actually the
Israelis because they are the
perpetrators and also I think it's it's
prudent to ask why are you not allowing
water and food in is this a genocide in
slow motion the answer is yes and I
think the responsibility the complicity
rests on the shoulders of the American
politicians and the president and on the
European politicians and their
leadership who are Whispering some small
protest this has been going on for four
weeks now people are dying hour by hour
people are starving people are thirsting
in 2023 when is this going to
stop Dr mad gilber there a medical
doctor and activist who's also worked in
alifa hospital